Land acquisition ordinance: Anna Hazare vows to fight Modi govt's 'anti farmer' bill

Veteran social activist Anna Hazare on Monday launched his protest at Jantar Mantar against the ordinance on Land Acquisition Bill.
Terming the Narendra Modi-led government's Land Acquisition Bill as "ant-farmer" Anna Hazare vowed to fight it. The move is bound to spell trouble for the present government which is keen on pushing the ordinance.
"BJP went for an ordinance on land acquisition which is not in favour of democracy," Anna said.

In response to a query on whether AAP leader Kumar Vishwas was joining his agitation, Anna Hazare said, "If people from parties come on our stage then people would think that it's a party protest."
The social activist also today hinted at a bigger agitation at the Ramlila ground if the Narendra Modi government did not heed to his demands on the issue.
Hazare said the two-day protest will be followed by a three to four month long 'padyatra' across the country to make people aware of the "anti-farmer" provisions made by the Centre in the ordinance.
"If the government doesn't take the ordinance back, then the people will also continue with their agitation. The activists will make aware the farmers (of the amendments). There is a chance that farmers from across the country will gather at the Ramlila Maidan in the next three-four months," he said.
77-year-old Hazare has been highly critical of the Modi government for making certain changes in the Land Acquisition Act through an ordinance.
On December 29 last year, the government had recommended promulgation of an ordinance making significant changes in the Land Acquisition Act including removal of consent clause for acquiring land for five areas of industrial corridors, PPP projects, rural infrastructure, affordable housing and defence.
A group of farmers who began marching from Haryana's Palwal on Friday are joining Hazare at the venue on Monday to demand withdrawal of amendments to the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.

Hazare had repeatedly lashed out at the BJP-led government for removing provisions which provided taking the farmers' consent before acquiring their land.
Hazare to meet Kejriwal over Land ordinance
Anna Hazare and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will meet in Delhi on Monday in the backdrop of the agitation against the Land ordinance.
The meeting will take place at the New Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi, Hazare's aide Dutta Awari said.
The government is bringing a new bill to replace the land ordinance amid stiff opposition from non-NDA parties in Parliament and outside.
The Land Acquisition Act, 2013 stipulates mandatory consent of at least 70 per cent of land owners for acquiring land for Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects and 80 per cent for acquiring land for private companies.
In December last, the government had promulgated the ordinance making significant changes in the Land Act including removal of consent clause for acquiring land for five areas - industrial corridors, PPP projects, rural infrastructure, affordable housing and defence.
Kumar Vishwas to meet Anna Hazare
Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Kumar Vishwas will be also be meeting Anna Hazare on Monday over the issue of Land Ordinance Bill.
However, the party is still undecided over joining the protest against the bill.
Land acquisition ordinance: Govt. trying to please corporates, alleges Congress
Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said it is extremely unfortunate that the BJP-led government issued the land acquisition ordinance without consulting anybody, and added this shows that the Centre is trying to please the corporates.
"They have already issued the ordinance without consulting anybody and we stand that the earlier action should be implemented. It is unfortunate that the government immediately, after the session is over, they issued the ordinance," Kharge told the media.
"It means that they are with the corporates. They are with the companies just to please them, to get more investment in the name of this land acquisition act," he added.
Kharge said the land acquisition ordinance is not in the interest of the farmers.
"It is not good what they have issued. So, we are jointly fighting and all others are also agreeing on the same point. So, we will take that issue when it comes up in the Parliament," he added.
The Congress leader further said that his party would very soon decide on extending support to veteran social activist Anna Hazare, who will sit on a protest at the Jantar Mantar here against the ordinance on Land Acquisition Bill.
"I can say that Anna Hazare is supporting our Act because this Act has enacted earlier and we expressed our reservation for this. Therefore, it is the good thing. Anna Hazare is also taking the same thing," he added.
Union parliamentary affairs minister M Venkaiah Naidu earlier in the day said that he has sought the Congress's cooperation for smooth functioning of the Parliament ahead of the budget session.

"I apprised Congress president of the need to allow the Parliament to function and sought the cooperation of Congress. The Congress president told me that they are also interested in allowing the Parliament to function but they have some issues they would want to raise," he said.
Naidu further said that the government is willing to discuss any issue raised by the opposition.

The budget session of Parliament began on Monday with President Pranab Mukherjee's address to members of both the houses of Parliament.
The budget session contains 44 items of financial, legislative and non-legislative business.

