Land Acquisition Bill: What I learnt at Anna Hazare rally

I am a student of St Stephen's College, Delhi, and on Tuesday, I went to Jantar Mantar, to attend Anna Hazare's two-day protest against the land ordinance. I wanted to find out how the social activist was attracting people from all over the country. Was it because communities of different states had individually decided to protest against the Act, or was it that each leader who joined the protest had brought along their own coterie of followers?

The show of strength stood in stark contrast with the protest of 2011 when the India Against Corruption campaign took the country by storm. There was a fairly low turnout of less than 1,000 people on the second and final day of the protest. However, yesterday I learnt that the numbers do not reveal the full story.

The protest was against the ordinance promulgated by the central government in December 2014. Under this, the government is entitled to acquire land from a landowner after due compensation, if it can be shown that this land will be used in industrial corridors, PPP projects, rural infrastructure, affordable housing or defence. In the earlier version of the bill, companies were required to seek the consent and meet an agreement with 70 per cent of the farmers before acquiring the land.

What was particularly impressive at the protest was the sheer diversity of the crowd. People from all over the country - Tamilians, Maharashtrians, Punjabis, Haryanvis - had gathered to protest against the ordinance.

I spoke to more than 50 people hailing from five states: The people from Maharashtra were all volunteers of the Ghar Bachao Ghar Banao NGO founded by Medha Patkar. Those from Tamil Nadu were members of the MDMK and had come in a show of support for their chief, Vaiko. The Punjabi group were part of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a trade union fighting for the rights of the farmers. Only those from Haryana and UP, closer to Delhi relatively, had come of their own accord to support Anna Hazare.

This is in no way intended as a criticism of the protest. The people from Tamil Nadu travelled for a total of 72 hours in a train to be in Delhi for all of 48 hours. The people I spoke to were well aware about why they were there, what the protest was about and why they had to prevent the ordinance from becoming a law.

So even though none of the farmers had experienced any first-hand instances of government snatching their land away from them, they were certain that if they did not protest then they were in danger of it happening to them. In the words of Pramod Kumar from UP, "When we are ready to send our children to war and die for the nation, would we not then be willing to give our land for the development of our country? But the government needs to treat us with respect and seek our permission before using it for the wellness of the nation."

So why were most of the protesters backed by leaders to protest the ordinance? I believe that this is because their leaders supported them to undertake the long journey without wanting them to burn too big a hole in their pockets, stressing about travel, stay and food.

The lesson I learnt at Jantar Mantar is that the magnanimity of the issue cannot be accessed by the number of the turnout in the protest. Land ordinance is an issue that only affects the rural areas, and the people who are affected by it do not have the resources to fight it by themselves.

Financial support from their leaders in terms of travel and accommodation simply enabled the villagers to fight for their rights. Many communities who are equally upset over the ordinance may not have the resources to show up at the rally. It does not mean they don't care.

